Add Network.framework introduction (#1675)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x06g-Testing-Network-Communication.md

### Network Framework

`Network framework` was introduced at [The Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC)](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2018/715 "Introducing Network.framework: A modern alternative to Sockets") in 2018 and is a replacement to the Sockets API. This low-level networking framework provides classes to send and receive data with built in dynamic networking, security and performance support.

TLS 1.3 is enabled by default in Network framework, if the argument `using: .tls` is used. It is the preferred option over the legacy [Secure Transport](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/secure_transport "API Reference Secure Transport") framework.

### URLSession

> `URLSession` was built upon the Network framework and utilizes the same transport services. The class also uses TLS 1.3 by default, if the endpoint is HTTPS. `URLSession` should be used instead of the Network framework for HTTP and URL connections.

Reviewer: i think this is a very nice point where we can add value here, that's why I insist. Imagine I'm a developer and I don't really know what's better of terms of security. As Apple states: "Use this framework when you need direct access to protocols like TLS, TCP, and UDP for your custom application protocols. " I'd add "ONLY' to that statement. I see `URLSession` as the safer option for _most of the cases_: you just want to retrieve some data (weather, kitten memes... you name it). If an careless developer would use the Network framework instead, wouldn't it present some misconfiguration risks?

it would be interesting to understand those risks, that way we have a clear statement from the security point of view about why we recommend to use `URLSession` for any URL-based resources. What do you think? :)

Author: Thanks @cpholguera, absolutely agree!  

As you can see in the Network framework code sample, there is a lot of boiler plate to be done by the developer just to send and receive HTTP-based requests in `Network` over `URLSession`. Additionally, URLSession has an immediate security benefit by not requiring the developer to specify `.tls` or `.tcp` and instead utilizing the protocol/scheme of the URL. 

Do you want me to try and condense the above and add in? 

I can also do more research (unfortunately there is not a lot of documentation/resources on Network framework), but I think the inherent risks are due to the added complexity of establishing and communicating over a Network framework connection.

Reviewer: yes please, a condensed conclusion would help a lot here. The security relevant information already digested for them 👌 thanks!

Author: @cpholguera  and @sushi2k , what do l think about something like this for clarifying when to use Network framework or URLSession? 

... 

### URLSession

`URLSession` was built upon the Network framework and utilizes the same transport services. The class also uses TLS 1.3 by default, if the endpoint is HTTPS.

`URLSession` should be used for HTTP and HTTPS connections, instead of utilizing Network framework directly. The class natively supports both URL schemes and is optimized for such connections. It and requires less boilerplate code, reducing the propensity for errors and ensures default secure connections by inspecting the scheme of a URL, instead of requiring the connection protocol to be specified. Network framework should only be used when there are low-level and/or advanced networking requirements.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me! Please keep referring to is as "The Network framework" instead of only "Network framework" to be consistent. Thanks for taking the time to think about it ;)

Author: Thank you @cpholguera and @sushi2k for all your help and support!  I have pushed those changes for your review.

Reviewer 2: Reads really good! Thanks @cak

Almost every iOS app acts as a client to one or more remote services. As this network communication usually takes place over untrusted networks such as public Wi-Fi, classical network based-attacks become a potential issue.

> Most modern mobile apps use variants of HTTP based web-services, as these protocols are well-documented and supported. On iOS 12.0+ (older iOS versions can utilize the [Sockets API](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/NetworkingTopics/Articles/UsingSocketsandSocketStreams.html "Using Sockets and Socket Streams"), the [Network.framework](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network "API Reference Network") framework and the [URLSession](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/urlsession "API Reference URLSession") class provide methods to load network and URL requests asynchronously and synchronously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most modern mobile apps use variants of HTTP based web-services, as these protocols are well-documented and supported. 
Since iOS 12.0 the [Network.framework](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network "API Reference Network") framework and the [URLSession](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/urlsession "API Reference URLSession") class provide methods to load network and URL requests asynchronously and synchronously. Older iOS versions can utilize the [Sockets API](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/NetworkingTopics/Articles/UsingSocketsandSocketStreams.html "Using Sockets and Socket Streams").
```

Reviewer: @sushi2k could you please change:

```
Since iOS 12.0 the [Network.framework](...) framework and the [URLSession](...) class
```
to:

```
Since iOS 12.0 the [Network framework](...) and the [`URLSession`](...) class
```

### Network.framework

> `Network.framework` was introduced at [The Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC)](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2018/715 "Introducing Network.framework: A modern alternative to Sockets") and is a replacement to the `Sockets` API. The low-level networking framework provides classes to send and receive data with built in dynamic networking, security and performance support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Network.framework` was introduced at [The Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC)](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2018/715 "Introducing Network.framework: A modern alternative to Sockets") in 2018 and is a replacement to the `Sockets` API. This low-level networking framework provides classes to send and receive data with built in dynamic networking, security and performance support.
```

Reviewer: @sushi2k I'd suggest changing

```
`Network.framework` was introduced
```
to:
```
The Network framework was introduced
```

Reviewer: and also the 
```
`Sockets` API
``` 
to 
```
Sockets API
```

> Network.framework uses TLS 1.3 by default if the `using: .tls` argument is used, and should be used over the legacy [Secure Transport](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/secure_transport "API Reference Secure Transport") framework.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TLS 1.3 is enabled by default in Network.framework,  if the argument `using: .tls` is used. It is the preferred option over the legacy [Secure Transport](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/secure_transport "API Reference Secure Transport") framework.
```

Author: @cpholguera When `NWConnection` is initialized for a Network framework connection it requires the `using: ` argument to be a [`NWParameters`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network/nwparameters) class - the options are: `tcp`, `tls`, `dtls` or `udp` - there is no default selection.

### URLSession

> URLSession was developed from Network.framework and utilizes the framework's transport services. The class also uses TLS 1.3 by default, if the endpoint is HTTPS. URLSession should be used instead of Network.framework for HTTP and URL connections.

Author: @cpholguera I was unable to find a definitive answer on why to use `URLSession` over `Network framework`, except for 

> Continue to use URLSession, which is built upon this framework, for loading HTTP- and URL-based resources.

[Network | Apple Developer Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network)

> URLSession was developed from Network.framework and utilizes the framework's transport services. The class also uses TLS 1.3 by default, if the endpoint is HTTPS. URLSession should be used instead of Network.framework for HTTP and URL connections.

Author: We could remove the confusing URL connections and replace with: HTTP based connections ?

> URLSession was developed from Network.framework and utilizes the framework's transport services. The class also uses TLS 1.3 by default, if the endpoint is HTTPS. URLSession should be used instead of Network.framework for HTTP and URL connections.

Author: If the resources is HTTP and not HTTPS, I believe the connection would not be allowed unless the steps outlined below (in the MTSG document) `ATS Exceptions` were implemented.

> URLSession was developed from Network.framework and utilizes the framework's transport services. The class also uses TLS 1.3 by default, if the endpoint is HTTPS. URLSession should be used instead of Network.framework for HTTP and URL connections.

Reviewer 2: Let's just simply use: 
`URLSession` should be used for HTTP and HTTPS connections, as the class natively supports both URL schemes.

> URLSession was developed from Network.framework and utilizes the framework's transport services. The class also uses TLS 1.3 by default, if the endpoint is HTTPS. URLSession should be used instead of Network.framework for HTTP and URL connections.

Reviewer 2: > If the resources is HTTP and not HTTPS, I believe the connection would not be allowed unless the steps outlined below (in the MTSG document) `ATS Exceptions` were implemented.

True

> URLSession was developed from Network.framework and utilizes the framework's transport services. The class also uses TLS 1.3 by default, if the endpoint is HTTPS. URLSession should be used instead of Network.framework for HTTP and URL connections.

Author: Thanks @sushi2k!

#### Network.framework TLS example

> ```Swift

Reviewer 2: Where do you have the sample from? If it's from documentation, let's just link to it instead of copying the code in here.

Author: Thanks and agree! Code example removed and replaced with links to official documentation.

import Foundation
import Network

/**
 A simple example of utilizing Network.framework, for an HTTP connection utilizing HTTPS and TLS.

>  In practice prefer URLSession for HTTP and URL connections.

Reviewer 2: So you are saying in the comment already that it's not best practice. We could just refer to this instead: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/url_loading_system/fetching_website_data_into_memory

The Network framework was introduced at [The Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC)](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2018/715 "Introducing Network.framework: A modern alternative to Sockets") in 2018 and is a replacement to the Sockets API. This low-level networking framework provides classes to send and receive data with built in dynamic networking, security and performance support.

TLS 1.3 is enabled by default in the Network framework, if the argument `using: .tls` is used. It is the preferred option over the legacy [Secure Transport](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/secure_transport "API Reference Secure Transport") framework.

### URLSession

`URLSession` was built upon the Network framework and utilizes the same transport services. The class also uses TLS 1.3 by default, if the endpoint is HTTPS.

> `URLSession` should be used for HTTP and HTTPS connections, instead of utilizing the Network framework directly. The class natively supports both URL schemes and is optimized for such connections. It and requires less boilerplate code, reducing the propensity for errors and ensures default secure connections by inspecting the scheme of a URL, instead of requiring the connection protocol to be specified. The Network framework should only be used when there are low-level and/or advanced networking requirements.

Reviewer: minor fixes + one suggestion for shorter text
```suggestion
`URLSession` should be used for HTTP and HTTPS connections, instead of utilizing the Network framework directly. The class natively supports both URL schemes and is optimized for such connections. It requires less boilerplate code, reducing the propensity for errors and ensuring secure connections by default. The Network framework should only be used when there are low-level and/or advanced networking requirements.
```

> The official Apple documentation includes examples of using the Network Framework to [implement netcat](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network/implementing_netcat_with_network_framework "Implementing netcat with Network Framework") and URLSession to [fetch website data into memory](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/url_loading_system/fetching_website_data_into_memory "Fetching Website Data into Memory").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The official Apple documentation includes examples of using the Network Framework to [implement netcat](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network/implementing_netcat_with_network_framework "Implementing netcat with Network Framework") and `URLSession` to [fetch website data into memory](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/url_loading_system/fetching_website_data_into_memory "Fetching Website Data into Memory").
```

`URLSession` was built upon the Network framework and utilizes the same transport services. The class also uses TLS 1.3 by default, if the endpoint is HTTPS.

`URLSession` should be used for HTTP and HTTPS connections, instead of utilizing the Network framework directly. The class natively supports both URL schemes and is optimized for such connections. It requires less boilerplate code, reducing the propensity for errors and ensuring secure connections by default. The Network framework should only be used when there are low-level and/or advanced networking requirements.

> The official Apple documentation includes examples of using the Network Framework to [implement netcat](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network/implementing_netcat_with_network_framework "Implementing netcat with Network Framework") and `URLSession` to [fetch website data into memory](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/url_loading_system/fetching_website_data_into_memory "Fetching Website Data into Memory").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The official Apple documentation includes examples of using the Network framework to [implement netcat](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network/implementing_netcat_with_network_framework "Implementing netcat with Network Framework") and `URLSession` to [fetch website data into memory](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/url_loading_system/fetching_website_data_into_memory "Fetching Website Data into Memory").
```
